The Spring DevTools dependency accelerates development time.
I like to use the MAVEN Clean Command at least once to start from a fresh build.
And then I rely on the spring def tools dependency to auto restart the application every time I make
a new change.
So in this lesson we will add the spring boot devtools dependency.
Spring Boot DevTools instruments your application to pick up new changes and restart.
So what we're going to do is google spring boot devtools.
And we will go to the know what?
Let's be more specific.
We'll say central maven repo.
Go to the Central Maven repository.
I will choose version 2.6.7 in accordance with my spring boot project.
Click that.
And I will synchronize the belt file.
Now here.
I can add the dependency now, I can actually remove the version number.
That being said, the version for Spring Boot starters will be 2.6.7 by default.
And what this dependency will do is provide all of the files needed to instrument your application to
always restart when you make a new change.
So let's try it out.
I'll start off with a clean build maven.
Clean spring boot run.
All right.
This time I actually have my Tomcat server running on Port 8080, so I'll go ahead and make a request
there.
Local host, 8080 l0 spring.
All right.
And now if you focus on my terminal, if I ever make a change in the back end for now, I'll just add
a print statement.
Notice that it auto restarts.
That's pretty cool, but we don't need to make any changes in the back end right now.
We'll go right into The View.
And.
I'll add another header that says.
How are you?
And now I don't have to restart the application because when we make a request on local hosts 80 to
80, it's going to return the updated view.
Beautiful.
There's just one thing I want to warn you about is if you find vs code ever getting slow for you or
you feel like an auto importing or the autocomplete feature just randomly stopped then shut down devtools
using control c.
It's usually the culprit, but most of the time it works really well.
So to recap, you added the dev tools dependency that picks up new changes and restart your application.
Every now and then.
I like to start off with a fresh build using Maven clean spring boot to run and then I let DevTools
take care of the rest.